And there weren't any problems. I think if you ask
people for advice and take it as good, you'll be all
right. But if you just ignore them and say, we're
going to do it this way, nobody appreciates that.
Well, that was the reason that we made the growth we
did in horticulture, was because I asked people's
advice. They gave me three choices. And I took
their advice, if I could fit it in any way. without
disturbing them. That was all there was to it. Let
me be sure of that.
In the teaching faculty, who were the really
outstanding people in the program? Bloodworth, I
mean,
isn't that awful? Homer Blackhurst, once the
board came back and was there for 40 years, He was
very stable, and I depended on him a lot. I knew I
couldn't depend on DeWorth, because DeWorth,
everything I did, it was wrong with DeWorth. And
such a letting all the girls in. You'll regret that
the longest day you live. Describe Blackhurst's
specialties. Peas, cow peas, I forgot what, I
think it was cow peas. He did research on a certain
kind of peas. and did it for years.
But he taught freshman horticulture, which is
beginning horticulture, many, many years. In
fact, he saved Harvard during the war, or they
wouldn't have had anybody. And when I wrote the
citation up for our distinguished professor of
the Harvard students, I put on there that he had
saved the department during the war. And had it not
been for Blackhurst hanging around and doing
this, we wouldn't have had anybody to work with.
But I was so glad to get him that distinguished
award. I told the kids how to write it up,
everything. And I got it. I was on the way to St.
Louis to a meeting. No, I'm on the way to a big
program in Kansas City. And I stopped just outside
of Kansas City, and I called up Blackhurst person
to person. I said, would you mind telling me what
time it is? And he said, well, I got a hold of the
secretary. She told me all about it, too. But he was
very deserving of it. Any guy that stays out of the
job 40 years, regardless of what he's doing,
deserves to be recognized. And I felt so, even
though I had people that didn't agree with me. They
don't always have to agree with me. If I'm calling
shots, I'm going to call them like I think they're
right. And I thought that Blackhurst needed it.
And you know the interesting thing about
Blackhurst? He died in his sleep Christmas Eve.
She died talking on the phone a week later. talking
to one of the daughters. And before the diamond
wanted to get there, she just toppled over. But he
came from West Virginia.
He was a character, but I enjoyed Homer and enjoyed
working with him. You could work with Homer any
time. You just never did. He never did really
pursue you. The worst is it drove me crazy. And last
year, I was there, and he was still there. Oh, my, I
couldn't do anything wrong. Right, every day,
he'd tell me what I'd done wrong and what was going
to happen and all that. So I just said, well, that's
your private privilege. As you look back on those
years, of what are you most proud of? reorganizing
horticulture, rebuilding horticulture. I did
that.
Well, that's the job I think I did the best job on
academically, and I'm proudest of that. And I
didn't have any trouble with that. It just took a
little while to do it. And, no, that's the thing I
am, in academics, that's the thing I think I, I
pride myself more, or anything else, is
rebuilding Harder Coater into a viable
department. And it was a good one, too. But you take
time.
You see, I went up to McCandless and asked for a
special fund to re-equip the office. And you had no
one you were going to be. So I got some match
furniture. And I went down and bought a little rug
myself and put it in there, but it didn't work.
When he just disappeared, he took all that
furniture with him across the track to one of those
shacks over there. Who's that? The department
here that they hired, Mr. Garlick. I mean, he just
disappeared one night. I came in, and all the
furniture was gone. That had been bought on a
special phone from McAnlis, the former
department head. And I felt he was staying in that
office, but he didn't stay there. You retired
when? I retired in,
let me see. You know, that had a pitfall in it. I
retired in 76,
I believe.
As you look back, are there any people that you
would want to thank that we haven't mentioned? I
can never thank Ms. Runner enough for what she did
for me. She let me take the president's home and use
it as a lab, too. In the class. And this was the new
president's home. Yes. And Jack Ridge was there
for a while in that home. And now let's see. Well,
I'll always be grateful to Blackhurst. And Dr.
Nightingale was a very good friend of mine. And I
admired him because, oh, he was treating
something awful about Dorothy. He would have a
research project set up. DeWorthy would come in
and just throw it all out. And how he put up with it, I
do not know, but he did. And then I hired Bill one
time along to come and help me with the flowers on
campus, because he was raising all this stuff up at
Waco. And DeWorthy came in one day and said, you
sure you made a mistake hiring that old boy? I said,
well, prop? You taught him all he knows.
You couldn't afford to take anything off that man,
or he'd run you under his feet. So I just made a point
that I didn't argue with him. I just said, well,
that's your opinion. But when he said I was making a
mistake letting all the girls in, and I said, well,
I'm not letting them in. They're taxpayers'
daughters. That just made him furious with me. But
you have to do what you think's right at the time.
Let's see. Other people that you want to thank?
Well, Dick Potts and I, we never made horticulture
without his help. Because there were so many
loopholes to fill with the students. No one had
ever given any counseling advising. They didn't
know what they were supposed to take or when they
were supposed to take it. And I could go down and
work with Dick and he'd help me over the pumps.
Oh, and Nelda in the president's office. Nelda
Rowell then, now Nelda Green. Yes. Oh, she is a
jewel. And she helped me over many rough spots.
Give some examples. Oh, I'd go in and just tell her I
had that. Well, I'll tell you one that really got
me. This is the outstanding one, I think. You know,
the court arms have walks, a big walk on. Well, I
know when they reported, they were very thin, no
reinforcing in them. And there were all kinds of
big trucks coming in there, especially the
vendors' trucks and the trash trucks. So the first
thing I did, I closed the thing to nothing but
emergency vehicles. A check sale came to see me,
mad. He says, We're going to stop this. We have to
get in there. I said, no, you don't. You're making
money off of us, and we have a right to tell you what
you can do and what you can't do. And he was a
twice-meter man. Oh, he said, I'll go see Roderick
about this. Before he got there, I put on the phone
with Nelda. I said, Nelda, let me talk to Mr.
Roderick real quick. I said, we have a man that
insists on bringing those heavy trucks in there.
And he's making money off of us. I think we have
every right to tell him where he can park and how he
can make the money. He says, I'll do it too. I'll
wait for him. And so we did more. You know, you have
to do what you think is right and stick by it. And
they had no minutes coming in there, breaking up
those walks. The kids had to walk on them. Anyway,
we got that done. We also cleaned up the core area
and hauled 59 truckloads of trash out of there and
found 34 wall building plaques in the stuff. Oh,
there's a lot of things to do. But I enjoyed my time.
All right. I'm near the end of my questions.
I want to be sure to mention to you, if you have any
memorabilia and papers or anything relating to
A&M that you ever want to dispose of, please put
them in the A&M archives. They will preserve them
and protect them. You know, all of that got lost in
the move that I've made, but at least I think it has.
I'm trying to think. When they moved us up here to
assisted living. My daughter and my son put all
that stuff, they put a lot of it up here, all they
could get up here. But it's in an air-conditioned
warehouse somewhere in Conroe. Well, if there are
any papers, because this would be like the
treasure house of the materials relating to A&M,
and nobody else will care for them as well as the
archives would. That's right. Well, I'll ask my
daughter. I can't remember if I had a file on me. I'm
sure I did. Well, if you did. But I don't know what to
do. Whether it's students, faculty, student
papers, faculty, it doesn't matter. All right,
then the next to last one. Let's make believe that
somebody walked up to you today and gave you a check
for a million dollars, and there was only one
condition to the gift, that you must pass it on to
Texas A&M, but you decide what use would be made of
it. What would you want to help A&M to do?
Well, I'd want most of it to go back to
scholarships. I guess they got lots of
scholarships, but
they haven't worked my way through A&M pretty
hard. I'd want it to go to students. Would you want
them
identified as to major or anything? Would that
matter? Just students? I've got a committee that
does that. All right. All right, then my last
question is, what are your feelings about A&M?
Great. Couldn't be better. I love A&M. I always
will love it. And as I said, what's the Aggie
spirit? You can't tell what the Aggie spirit is. It
just grows on you, and it's the part of it that you
absorb during life that you don't get any other
way. And I cherish all the years that I had there
both as a student and faculty and everything. I
have a few regrets that I couldn't get along with
Paul Stevens. I couldn't get a lot of my stuff done,
because every time I turned, he was blocking it or
blowing cigar smoke in my face and those kind of
things I didn't like. And I had the freedom to do
things I wanted to do. I'm trying to think who the
assistant dean of agriculture was at the time, and
he was thinking West Campus as an ag campus. And we
went down there to talk to Stevens about some
possibilities of a building. And he said, I don't
want to go back in there and talk to that man any
minute. He don't quite understand me.
I told him I was going to make this an ag campus, and
he said, he just told me that he didn't do campus
planning, and he didn't go in and do it. Just forget
it. And I said, that's right. He's calling the
shots.
All right, let's quit with that.